All right, so let's start wiring up our first Vue component tests.
We currently have two components in our app, app, dot view and main NAV that view.
So let's write our first test for the main nav component.
So right here within my tests directory, I have a unit directory and here I want to create yet another
folder which I'm going to call components.
My goal here is to mimic the directory structure of my SLC folder.
Eventually I'm going to have more than just unit tests and within my unit tests I'm going to have tests
for more than just components.
So I want to make sure I isolate those different parts of my app that I'm testing.
So I'm going to create a components directory here, just like an S or C and within components, I'm
typically going to create one test file per view component.
So let's create our test file for our main nav component.
So right in here, I'm going to create a file called Main NAV dot test dot.
J.S. All right.
Notice how we've named the file.
It has the exact same name as our component, except our extension is dot test.
J.S. Remember, we need our test files to have either a dot test jazz or dot spec just extension in
order for just to recognize them as test files.
So remember, just is going to make its functions available to us immediately when we run our tests.
So we don't need to import anything from Gest, but we do need to import a extra method that we're going
to use from a library called Vue Test Utils.
The View Test Utils Library provides several utility functions for testing Vue components.
It's methods allow us to mount and interact with Vue components outside the browser.
So when I use the word amount, what I really mean is get it up and running.
When I mount a view component, I'm going to simulate that component as if it exists in the real world,
except we're going to be able to interact with it outside of the browser.
We're going to treat it just like a plain JavaScript object.
We're going to see how we can see that components output such as its HTML, such as the text that it
renders, but all outside of our visual browser environment.
So I'm going to need to import a function from the view tested to library called Mount.
So right here I'm going to import a named export called Mount and it's going to come from a library
called Act View Slash Test Dash utils.
All right.
And in case you're curious about this little prefix, that's totally normal, that's just an NPM convention
to recognize that the test utils library belongs to the View organization.
That's just to avoid any confusion with any other NPM package that may also be called test utils.
All right.
And this package is automatically available in our project because when we were using The View Seelye,
we specified that we would like to include unit testing.
So that view included this package as part of our dependencies.
So now that I have my mount function imported, I also need to import the component that I'm going to
be testing, which of course is Main NAV.
So right here I'm going to import Main now and where can we find it?
It is inside our SLC directory which I can reference with that at sign and then inside components.
I'm going to be able to find main nav.
All right.
In fact, I'm going to add the doc view extension just to be extra safe here.
All right, so now we've imported our main nav component.
Let's create a new described block.
So we're going to use just described function.
The first argument, of course, is a string that describes what we're testing.
We are going to be testing our main NAV component.
And the reason I'm repeating that here is if you can imagine a big just test suite running, we're going
to have lots of components.
And so this creates a nice level of organization in my test output where I can see the tests that belong
to the main nav component rather than having them all at the same level of indentation and being confused
about which test belongs to which component.
So we're going to start with this top level organization of May now.
Then we're going to provide our function.
And here I'm going to skip any additional described blocks because there's no nested information I want
to provide.
I'm going to jump straight to my test and I'm going to write it.
And then let's think about what it is that we want to test here.
So ideally, as I've mentioned earlier, the test descriptions should describe the user value and or
the technical purpose of a piece of code.
Without specifying the implementation or getting too much into the nitty gritty details of how it is
going to be built.
So you can imagine a product owner or another developer reading this file and imagine them reading our
described blocks and our IT functions.
And if you can describe what the component is doing in a way that a non-technical person would understand,
I think that's the best way to structure our tests.
So from a business perspective or from a business logic perspective, what is the responsibility of
the main now?
Well, obviously it's to display a bunch of menu items, but we haven't built that functionality out
yet.
The first responsibility of this is to display our company name.
So I'm just going to write that right here.
It displays the company name.
Notice I'm describing the value of this component to the user.
I'm not talking about how I'm going to implement this solution, right?
Then of course, as we know, our IT function is going to take a second argument of a arrow function.
So I'm going to create that right here.
And here is where we can mount our main nav component.
So we're going to use that mount function that we imported from the view test utils.
We're going to invoke it.
And as you might have guessed, the very first argument that we give it is going to be the component
that we would like to mount to get up and running.
And that, of course, is going to be our main nav component.
So I'm going to provide main nav as my first argument, and this is what our code currently looks like.
This is going to return a special object and we typically are going to give it the constant name in
our test of wrapper.
So I'm just going to write out const wrapper equals.
Now the name is totally up to you.
The reason the view documentation recommends wrapper and the reason why a lot of developers use it is
because it's descriptive of what Mount returns.
Mount returns a object that is a wrapper around the view component in this case Main NAV.
It's not just main now by itself, it's main nav wrapped with a bunch of extra functionality that the
View Test Utils library gives to us that we can utilize.
And wrapper reminds us that it's an additional layer on top, an additional sheet above an additional
wrapper above the main nav view component by itself.
It's not just the component, it's the component with some expanded functionality.
So let me show you an example of what some of that functionality is.
So right here, I'm going to console.log and I'm going to take my wrapper object and I'm going to see
what available methods we have on it.
One of those methods is HTML and we're going to make sure to invoke it with parentheses because it is
a method.
And right now let's go ahead and run our test wheat and see what this outputs.
So right here we have our NPM run test, colon unit command that's going to run all of the tests in
our project and hopefully just we'll find our test file.
There we go.
It's going to run it.
We're going to get a pass because there's no actual assertions.
So there are no failures.
But more importantly, below our test, we're going to see the console.log that we just put.
And you can see it's going to be the HTML from our main nav component.
So here we have our header.
We have those divs that we defined with the Tailwind classes and here we have a company name of Bobo
careers.
So notice the beauty of this view.
Test utils is outside of the browser.
We can sort of get this component up and running and see what it's made out.
Out of, out of, without having to launch this full execution environment like Chrome.
So there's one more method I want to show you in this lesson, just to give you a general sense of what
this wrapper object allows us to do and how it allows us to inspect the view component that it mounts.
As another example, if we just want to see the text that the component contains instead of writing
HTML, we can invoke a different method called text.
And what text is going to do is it's not going to focus on the actual HTML markup.
It's going to focus on the actual user text that is written anywhere inside the component.
So when I execute this.
And we take a look at our console.log from our test.
Instead of seeing the full markup, we're just going to see Bobo careers.
Just to remind you what this looks like, I'm going to flip back to Main now right here.
And you can see that between all of this HTML here is where we are injecting the value of company,
which again comes from our data object right here and its values bubble careers.
And that is exactly what the test recognizes.
There's some kind of text somewhere in there component called bubble careers and it prints it out.
Right now, the test doesn't care about whether that text is hardcoded into HTML or whether it's interpolated
in based on a value coming from our data object.
It just knows that it is somewhere in that final view component and so it outputs it for us.
And as you might have guessed, in order to finalize the assertion here, I'm displaying the company
name.
I think a really basic test that we can do is checking that our wrapper text includes our company name
of bubble careers, and that will validate that somehow, some way our container, our main nav, rather
a component is displaying our company name, our brand, which is what we care about on our main navigation
menu.
So we're going to wire up this assertion in the very next lesson.
I'll see you there.